you
hi i'm robert stevens with boating
magazine today we're taking an advanced
look Bay liners new 285 cruiser you may
have heard of the 285 cruiser don't be
confused this is a brand new boat for
2011 and they didn't just give it a
spiffy new paint job what they've done
is made it more sleek more aerodynamic
and hydrodynamic and they've added a
little bit more beam to make it more
Cruiser friendly and because the 285
Cruiser runs on a single engine with an
89 gallon fuel capacity families can
take it long range economically now
that's the nutshell version of the 285
let's take a closer look we ran the 285
on a humid but relatively calm day along
the Intracoastal Waterway top speed was
about thirty seven and a half miles per
hour when average width and against the
current that was with the 89 gallon fuel
tank full and just the captain aboard at
4000 rpm in cruising twenty-seven miles
per hour the boat burns as 13.3 gallons
of fuel per hour
remember this is all with a single
Mercruiser 350 mag as the boat is built
for economical cruising not all-out
performance the helm is one of the first
things we noted when boarding the 285
cruiser starting with its double wide
helm seat on the captain's side we've
got to flip up bolster to give us a nice
view when coming into the dock there's
also a fixed companion area right next
to the driver so I don't have to turn
around
join the conversation back here I've got
someone to keep you
and on the portside they've integrated a
couch that can sit two or three people
who can converse with the captain and
his companion or with the folks in the
out cockpit now the instrument panel has
a nice wide flat area here so you can go
ahead and add a GPS chartplotter and a
VHF radio if you'd like ours happens to
come with an optional bow thruster which
is a great idea with a single engine
setup especially if you're in an area
where you have strong currents Bayliner
is all about functionality and safety
just by the structure of this four deck
first it's covered and non-skid and the
rails around it are nice and high I can
come up here to the front and even if
the foredeck were slick
they've got this nice high rail around
the bow even at my height I can lean up
against it and it comes up above my knee
that's nice and secure you've also made
it easy to work the anchor ours has a
windlass on it also we've got foot
controls so I can weigh or halting
anchor without bending over it's going
to save my back and a sporty Cruiser
like the 285 you'd find yourself on the
hook or at the beach or even at a marina
and that means we'd spend some time in
the app cockpit what we like about the
285 is that there's a lot of room in
this app cockpit we've got facing
couches and part of that is because
they've got a straight transom rather
than sloping it back which means there's
lots of room aft also there's a little
offset galley over here so with a
fibreglass sink it's fed by a fresh
water tank and underneath ours has a
nice fridge so you can grab drinks there
or there's a special spot under this
seat we can bring a carry-on cooler it's
got to recess there so your cooler won't
slide all over the deck having a beam of
nearly 10 feet has advantages right here
in the cabin I'm in the forward
stateroom there's room for two people to
sleep up here and this is nice this
privacy curtain closes it off from this
dinette over to starboard and the galley
over
or the dinette converts into a sleeper
area for two more people and that
happens pretty easily we'll show you
that a minute this galley over here
it's all standard with the microwave
sink refrigerator and cabinetry and
before we move to the app cabin
I just wanted to show you that net does
indeed convert to a sleeper area let's
take a closer look at the mid cabin as
you can see there's a nice long shelf so
you can put some clothes up there some
extra knickknacks and there's a long
hanging Locker down here so you can hang
clothes for longer trips but here's the
best part
if you've ever overnighted on a sport
cruiser you know that your privacy
normally consists of a curtain right
here if you're lucky because most of
these mid cabins are wide open to the
salon but check this out total privacy
so your friends can stay in here or your
kids and be totally separated from the
main cabin that's something you don't
find very often in a 28 and half foot
cruiser but Bayliner does it because
they're always looking to add a little
bit more value to the boating experience
you can see for yourself with the new
285 they've hit the bull's eye by
matching family vacation comfort with
affordability
you